.. include:: <isonum.txt>

Introduction
############

An organized group of members of the home performance community with the support
of the private, utility, and public sectors, conceived of and developed the
Building Performance Institute's (BPI) BPI-2100 and BPI-2200 data standards
commonly referred to as ("HPXML"). To expedite its deployment into the market,
Home Performance with ENERGY STAR\ |reg| developed this HPXML Implementation Guide to
help program administrators and software developers integrate HPXML into their
operations and products. Simply put, HPXML is a set of common definitions for
the attributes of the systems in a home and the computing language that
facilitates the quick and easy transfer of home-related data between different
market actors. Without HPXML, home improvement contractors cannot easily
exchange data with partnering businesses, energy efficiency programs, the real
estate market, or the financial sector.

As conveyed in Figure 1 below, today there is a fragmented, siloed marketplace
where exchange of data occurs but with non-uniform definitions for metrics and a
lack of for two-way feedback systems. Figure 2 represents a market where HPXML
has been successfully integrated which facilitates the easy exchange of data
between and among different market actors.  While each market actor would have
specific uses for some data, other data could be shared creating more value for
residential energy efficiency as a whole ultimately translating into greater
energy savings from a more efficient marketplace.

.. figure:: /images/existing_connections.png
    :figwidth: 4.5in
    :align: center

    Figure 1: Existing Market Conditions

.. figure:: /images/hpxml_connected_market.png
    :figwidth: 4.5in
    :align: center

    Figure 2: Connected Market

It is the expectation of the U.S. Department of Energy that expanded use of
HPXML will achieve the following:

    * Reduce time and cost of collecting and transferring home and
      energy-related data;
    * Foster new and strengthen existing organizational relationships within
      the residential supply chain;
    * Increase the transparency of energy efficiency work tto facilitate deeper
      market penetration of energy efficiency products and services;
    * Enhance ability to quantify energy savings through standardized,
      data-rich EM&V methods;
    * Improve the quality assurance systems and practices needed to efficiently
      support, measure and verify energy performance.

Significant effort has gone into the development of HPXML and this
Implementation Guide, but the work is not complete.  HPXML is constantly being
improved and this Implementation Guide will benefit from the lessons learned by
different organizations integrating HPXML into their operations.  If you have
questions about HPXML or believe you can contribute to the overall success of
its deployment, please email us at homeperformance@energystar.gov.  HPXML was
developed and deployed through a collaborative process, and we intend to
continue in that spirit to expand its execution and improvement.

