.. _step2:

Step 2: Incorporate Stakeholder Feedback
########################################

HPXML can be a powerful tool to facilitate trade ally/contractor's choice in
software systems, while delivering consistent and reliable data. It provides a
great opportunity to improve contractor satisfaction and operational efficiency.
To maximize your potential for success, it is important to establish a
consistent means to collect feedback from both trade allies and the software
community throughout the HPXML process. To start you may want to collect
feedback and cultivate support for the HPXML goals you have established for your
program in :ref:`step1`.

Trade Ally Feedback
*******************

Consider working closely with your local trade ally network, trade associations,
or energy-efficiency contracting network to collect feedback important to your
planning process. For example, some pilots have hosted lunch and learning
meetings before their design process began.  This allowed the program
administration team to identify the highest priorities for trade allies and
cultivate support for the new program design.  Ultimately, this helped focus the
project scope to deliver successful results.

When engaging in this process, consider a few key topic areas:
  * Pain points for data collection and reporting
  * How program goals will impact contractors' businesses
  * Priorities for program design and subsequent rollout
  * Early adopters who can assist in testing and give feedback on initial designs
  * Functionality and user experience desired from the new program software
    environment

Identifying a representative group of trade allies that can assist throughout
the process will be key in later steps of the implementation plan. Many
successfully implemented programs have coordinated with contractors by setting
up regular meetings, hosting dinners to collect feedback, or working closely
with representatives from local trade associations.

Software Vendor Coordination
****************************

As the program administrator, you need to decide on the minimum qualifications
for software to participate in your program.  It is recommended to begin
communication with software vendors as soon as your project plan is developed.
BPI WG-5 can help connect you to all of the software vendors that are currently
coding to HPXML. Since  many of these vendors have implemented in other
jurisdictions, they can offer valuable support for a program's planning process.

Programs that are considering opening the market to multiple modeling software
tools, may want to review the varying features of the different HPXML-compliant
energy modeling software tools. Taking a demo from each of the vendors is a good
place to start to help gain a general understanding of how their tools work and
differ from each other. Each vendor takes a unique approach, which promotes
innovation and helps contractors deliver high-quality proposals and energy
savings feedback to customers. Reviewing how each of the software tools work
will give your program in understanding of what the market is transferring now
via HPXML. This will enable your program to be well prepared for the next step
of determining data needs.
