.. _step6:

Step 6: Implementing Testing Protocols
######################################

With every new HPXML program launch, there are a number of testing activities
that need to happen to maximize your opportunity for success. Be sure to plan
for at least a couple of months of testing. Work with the software community to
schedule each stage of testing. Make sure that you schedule time for your staff
to focus on this activity. If you can set a clear plan for testing early on, and
stick to your production schedule, this should allow you to get to market in a
timely and organized manner.

There are four main testing roles, each of which requires a different group of testers:

HPXML File Testing
****************** 

This is best completed between your program software provider and third-party
software vendors that are exporting to your system. Ideally, your program
software provider will supply third-party software vendors with a testing
environment in which they can submit test files and receive direct validation
error feedback. Activity will likely be between the IT experts from both your
program software provider and the third-party software vendors.

Program Compliance Testing
**************************

Based on the validation protocols that you have set up, and in order to check
program compliance, a group of testers that are intimately familiar with the
program requirements will review files in a test environment. The goal is to see
if files submitted by the third-party software vendor are being captured in your
program management system and that the system is parsing the data out as
expected. Usually, this is completed by someone from the implementation or QA
team.

End-to-End Testing
******************

Especially if you are using third-party modeling tools, it is important for
testers from the program implementation team to run a series of test homes using
each of the software systems as if they were a participating contractor. This is
to check to see if data entered into each system is making it all the way to
your program database as designed. In addition, you will be familiarizing
yourself with the user experience and can identify potential problems before
releasing to the contractor base. 

User Testing
************

Once you have completed end-to-end testing, it is always good to identify a
group of users (contractors or trade allies) who can try the system in a test
environment or as a soft program launch. Using a limited number of contractors,
you can identify any potential problems before full-scale release.

It is good to designate a program representative responsible for overseeing the
testing process. This person should be equipped to make decisions regarding software requirements and functionality on behalf of the
program. As things are discovered during the testing process, it will be
important to determine what needs to be fixed before launch verses addressed
over time. This role will help ensure that the program requirements are being
met, while keeping the project on track.  
